# Basics of Elasticsearch

## Data Structure

1. **INDEX** - in elastic it is a set of documents, making a parallel with RDB's systens, it is like a *database*.

2. **TYPE** - yet in the same parallel used above, types in elastic it is like a *table*.

3. **DOCUMENT** - it is a register in elastic, lika a *row* in SQL systems.

## Request

The Elasticsearch uses RESTful architecture to abstract interaction with Apache Lucene, who is the responsible to manage all the data.

### The HTTP Verbs:

- `POST` - This verb is used to **CREATE** a new document, but if an `ID` is passed as a param to request, the document will be created with the specified `ID`, if document already exist, it'll be **UPDATED**. The data of documents is 

- `GET` - This verb is used to **RETRIEVE** informations from server, if `ID` is passed to request, it will return just one document.

- `PUT` - It's the verb used to **UPDATE** a document. The `ID` parameter is **REQUIRED** 

- `DELETE` - This verb **DELETE** a document specified with the `ID` parameter passed. But it must be used carefully, because it allow you to **DELETE** your index, and all of your data in that index.

### Basics Request Example

#### Indexing a new document:

This is a basic request to index a new document by setting an `_id` to it.

```bash
curl -X PUT "{url}:{port}/{index}/{type}/{id}" \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '
{
  "field": "value",
  ...
}
'
```

For example in this request the `_index` is **store**, `_type` is **product**, its `_id` is **123**, and a `json` in the body of request defines the other fields of the document. The `pretty` parameter is just for server give us a pretty json response.

```bash
curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/store/product/123?pretty" \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '
{
  "name": "Notebook",
  "price":  900.50
}
'
```

The json below is a return of HTTP request made above. The json response indicating some things, like:

- `_index` - "index" which the document was stored.
- `_type` - "type" which the document was stored.
- `_id` - given "_id" which the document has received. it can be autogenerated.

```json
{
  "_index" : "store",
  "_type" : "product",
  "_id" : "123",
  "_version" : 1,
  "result" : "created",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 2,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 0,
  "_primary_term" : 1
}
```

```json
{
  "_index" : "store",
  "_type" : "product",
  "_id" : "123",
  "_version" : 2,
  "result" : "updated",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 2,
    "successful" : 2,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 1,
  "_primary_term" : 1
}
```
